Rebecca: So many people with disabilities
are so aware of the fact
that their disability
makes other people uncomfortable
that they adjust themselves.
They need to be funny.
They need to be likable.
They need to disarm themselves.
They need to show the world,
“hey, I'm just like you.”
[music plays]
Fatou: You know what is the
hardest part of it all?
Is having friends that do not get it.
They don't get what it means
to be DeafBlind or have Usher syndrome.
They just don't.
Even after you've educated
them, it's not getting through.
And that's a choice
they've made not to get it.
Korrine: The stigma.
When you hear somebody
say something about
blindness or hearing loss.
What you see in movies
and books and everything.
People get the wrong idea.
There really needs to be more
awareness and more education
because I think people are really scared.
I don't know what they're scared of,
but, you know,
I think it's just a learning
curve for everybody,
that everyone kind of needs
to learn about these things
and try to understand it and look at it
from a different perspective.
Rebecca: The biggest issue that people have
unconsciously, subconsciously,
with seeing people with disabilities
is that it brings up in them
their own morbidity and mortality.
It brings up in them all of
the things that they're afraid
will happen to them or that
they will no longer be able to do.
There's a sign in sign language
that's like, “I pity you or I'm so sorry.”
And this is how people oftentimes
think of people with disabilities.
Fatou: Again, we're conditioned. We learn that.
Communicating with people
can be very difficult.
Sometimes it's just not happening.
So I have to be extra patient,
ask for clarification so that I can
understand what's happening.
Sometimes people still
don’t understand that DeafBlind people,
even after explaining everything to them.
Look at how we behave.
See if we truly understand.
And it's difficult managing that
with people that ain't got no sense.
Alice: It isn't easy sometimes,
like going shopping and having them
pretend you're not using an iPad
or a communication device
or communication cards and they just
look at you like you came from space.
That's not going to help much.
Yes, I'm a blind person, but that's
a characteristic, it's not who I am.
If you look at us
and think it's impossible,
then you already built your own wall.
We welcome you.
It would be nice to be welcomed
on the opposite side.
[music plays]
Fatou: I have seen and come across
a lot of DeafBlind people,
my sister included, who feel embarrassed
and timid and conceal their DeafBlindness
because the thought of others
knowing about their DeafBlindness
makes them feel some type of way.
Korrine: There are ways to cope,
and I think one thing
that really helped was getting
a therapist, talking to a therapist.
I'm not ashamed to say that.
I think that that was really helpful
to have an outlet to go to,
aside from like a family member
or a friend or the other network is just
like an outside perspective of like,
“hey, here's everything that's going on,
give me some advice.’
Alice: Finding a therapist,
that's a serious adventure.
Finding one that can even deal
with what species you are.
It's kind of like training.
Literally just like I break in
a new best friend, sort of.
And this is how it works and this is,
you know, when you're hanging with me,
this is the stuff that happens and
you got to kind of school them
so that they know this is your life
and this is how it works.
And no, you can't just
start prattle, prattle, prattle
because it's not going to work that way.
Korrine: That's the exhaustion.
That's why people with
disability oftentimes,
when they seek mental health, they don't
get the mental care that they need
because they're spending so much time
with people who have preconceived ideas
who don't understand what it's like
to live as a DeafBlind person.
So I think there's just a lot of
education that goes into it,
that disrupts or interferes
with our ability as people
with DeafBlindness to just get the
support and the help that we need.
But it's also so important
for us to be able
to create more therapists and more
people who are mental health oriented
within our own community so
that we can help each other.
Korrine: Being able to connect with people
who are kind of in my shoes,
who understood what I was going through
and I really gained a lot more confidence
after getting connected with all
these groups and all these people
and be able to be a voice
for people who can't
Rebecca: We're so afraid to ask for help.
We're so afraid to speak our needs.
But when you ask for help,
you engender in someone
the feeling that they're needed
and that they matter
and I don't think anybody wants
anything more in this world
than to feel like they're needed
or that they matter.
And so if you can see it more
from what you offer
someone else when you ask for help,
you're not asking them to do it for you.
You're asking for their support.
Then maybe that will start to shift
the way that people with disabilities
see themselves when they
ask for help from others.
The most productive and successful
and cohabitative communities
are interdependent, not independent.
It's where we all rely on each other
to be able to ensure the success
and the ability for people to thrive
in the area that we live in.
[music ends]